Keystoke detection using LLMs

Intoduction

In response, systems like Google’s reCAPTCHA have shifted towards behavioral analysis, monitoring user interactions
to generate a risk score [2]. While effective, these systems often operate as "black boxes" and raise privacy concerns
due to extensive user data tracking

The concept of using automated tests to distinguish humans from computers was formalized by von Ahn et al. [1],
leading to the first generation of text-based CAPTCHAs. As these became vulnerable to optical character recognition
(OCR) algorithms, subsequent iterations introduced image-based challenges. However, the efficacy of these visual
puzzles has been significantly diminished by modern convolutional neural networks [3].
Keystroke dynamics is a well-established field within behavioral biometrics, primarily used for continuous authentication
and user re-verification [4]. The rhythm and cadence of typing produce a unique signature that can be used to verify a
user’s identity. Research in this area has identified numerous features, such as dwell time (duration of a key press) and
light time (time between key presses), that are effective for modeling user-specific patterns [5].
The proposed system is designed based on a secure client-server architecture. In this model, the client-side interface is
responsible for rendering challenges and capturing user input, while a trusted backend server manages all sensitive
operations. This includes making secure API calls to the LLM to generate challenges and performing the final
validation of both the user’s answer and their behavioral data. This separation of concerns prevents exposure of sensitive
information (like API keys or correct answers) on the client side.

API call and securing it

// Example LLM JSON Response
{
"question": "What color is the sky on a clear day?",
"answer": "blue"
}
Upon receiving the response, the backend computes the SHA-256 hash of the answer and transmits only the question
and the hash to the client, ensuring the plaintext answer is never exposed

Parameters considered

 Total Typing Duration (Ttotal): The total time elapsed from the first to the last keystroke. Ttotal = tn − t1.
2. Mean Latency (µF): The average time between key presses.
3. Standard Deviation of Latency (σF): The variability in the typing rhythm. This is a key feature, as human
typing is inherently less uniform than that of simple scripts

Conclusion and future work

 Advanced Behavioral Modeling: We plan to replace the current heuristic classifier with a machine learning
model, such as a one-class Support Vector Machine (SVM) or an autoencoder. By training on a large dataset
of human typing patterns, these models can create a more nuanced and robust classification boundary, making
it significantly harder for sophisticated bots to evade detection.
2. Multi-modal Biometrics: Keystroke dynamics can be augmented with other behavioral signals. We will
investigate incorporating mouse movement analysis, tracking features like cursor velocity, acceleration, and
path curvature to build a richer, multi-modal behavioral profile.
3. Performance and Scalability Analysis: A comprehensive analysis of the system’s performance under load is
required. This includes studying the latency overhead of the LLM API calls and optimizing the client-server
communication protocol for a production environment.
