mouse and other que detection systems( the spatial characteristics of the mouse movements, the browsing speed)

Introduction

Completely Automated
Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart (CAPTCHAs) 

(e.g., Google’s reCAPTCHA v22)
 
other features used for training 

Rule-based web bot detection techniques that use browser fingerprints include font detection, plugin enu
meration, WebGL fingerprinting, examination of unique to browser automation software strings in JavaScript
variables, and more.can extract low level properties, such as the instruction-set architecture, and the used memory allocator [31]

General model used by bots

The web bot detection approaches that are based on web logs rely primarily on several “traditional” machine
learning algorithms, such as Support Vector Machines [20, 29, 37], Random Forests [20, 34], Adaboost [20, 34],
and Multi-layer Perceptron classifiers 

however latest  web bots that try to evade detection via, for example,
exhibiting a browser fingerprint and a humanlike behaviour.A fingerprint that is close to one of a browser can be be achieved with the
use and configuration of specific browsing automation software 

Datasets

1Feature Extraction. The information included in each session is encoded into measurable values, which
are meant to represent the various properties (features) that can be found in (or deduced from) the web logs.
These features are related to the method/response code of the HTTP request, the type of file(s) requested, and
the browsing behaviour. These features are used as input to train the classification models.

 Mouse Movement Collection Architecture. The first step is to collect the mouse movements of each
visitor on each web page. These data are stored as a sequence and include all the points that the visitor per
formed mouse movements on, along with the respective timestamps. The data are collected in the form of
{(x1,y1,t1), (x2,y2,t2),... ,(xn,yn,tn)},wherexi and yi are the coordinates of the current mouse point, ti is
the timestamp of when the mouse move was performed, and n is the total number of points over which the
mouse hovered in each web page.

Preprocessing

2)Feature Selection. 
In machine learning, some of the available features might negatively affect the effec
tiveness of the classification models. Therefore, it is common to perform a feature selection process, in which a
subset of all available features is chosen [13, 20]. The framework can be combined with any feature selection al
gorithm to accommodate different types and volumes of data. The specific details of the feature selection process
that has been selected for the evaluation of this framework are presented in Section 6.4.

Training

3)Classification. The final feature vectors are used as input to train the classifiers. The framework sup
ports the construction of an ensemble from several classifiers (i.e., it performs a class probability averaging of
all the available classifiers) [20, 34]. The classification algorithms that are typically employed include Support
Vector Machines, RandomForest,andsoon;detailsoftheclassifiers that are employed in this workarepresented
in Section 5.1. In the testing phase, the ensemble is used to identify whether new web sessions are from web bots
or humans.


Activation Function

scoretot = scoremv,
if scoremv ≥ thresh or scoremv ≤ thresl
wmv ∗scoremv + wwl ∗ scorewl, otherwise
