Text based capcha(image features are extracted using cnn model)


 Step1,textimage creation: for each group, select three to five letters at random from
EMNIST. The characters of each group are distorted [4.3], and parameter O is used to
control the overlap between two characters, with the default value for O being 0. The
• Step 1, text image creation: for each group, select three to five letters at random from 
EMNIST. The characters of each group are distorted [4.3], and parameter  is used 
to control the overlap between two characters, with the default value for  being 0. 
The text from three groups are then concatenated to form a whole CAPTCHA with a 
white background. The size of a whole text-based CAPTCHA is 256 × 768. 
text from three groups are then concatenated to form a whole CAPTCHA with a white
background. The size of a whole text-based CAPTCHA is 256 × 768.
• Step2,topic image selection: from the ImageNet dataset, choose a random image of
the global topic, called the topic image.
• Step 2, topic image selection: from the ImageNet dataset, choose a random image of 
the global topic, called the topic image. 
• Step3,style image selection: from the ImageNet dataset, choose a random image for
the style image.
• Step 3, style image selection: from the ImageNet dataset, choose a random image for 
the style image. 
• Step4, fusion: by using seamless cloning [48], the fusion machine merges the text
image with the topic image to create the content image. This content image is then
style transferred from the style image by the neural-style-transfer method. Finally, the
• Step 4, fusion: by using seamless cloning [48], the fusion machine merges the text 
image with the topic image to create the content image. This content image is then 
style transferred from the style image by the neural-style-transfer method. Finally, 
the stylized image is transformed into an adversarial example to cause misclassifica
tion of the CNN/DNN networks.  
stylized image is transformed into an adversarial example to cause misclassification of
the CNN/DNNnetworks